# Javascript Game Programming for Beginners
(c) 2016 Eric Balingit  

<br>
<br>
## Part 1 - Some (but Not All) Things Javascript

<br>
### Chapter 1 - Just the Basics (Beginner)

It can be difficult starting out when learning to program.  In this chapter we
will start from the very bottom, learning about the most basic things you need
to know about Javascript.  The first section, Chapter 1.1, covers variables,
arrays, loops and logic.  In section 1.2 we learn about the usefulness of
functions to help organize code and make it more useable.  By "make it more
useable" I mean, basically, code, the text that you write in the editor, is not
only a program, but it is a document, a record, a place to store something that
you'very written.  And it is also a resource.

One of the biggest challenges when learning a new subject is how to deal with
all the new information that gets thrown at you and how to manage and organize
that information.  As we learn to keep our programs ( the program "documents"
that we write ) more organized, so we can read and edit them more easily, we
will begin to see those documents as _**resources**_ that we can reuse, borrow
from, extend and share with others.  Organization is often viewed or treated as
a lesser goal of managing information, documents or data, depending on how the
information is to be handled, but in the context of programs as a _resource_,
when we consider their value as building blocks for other programs, tools for us
to use or even as products that we can make a living from, then it becomes clear
that organization is like a road map when you're in the middle of nowhere.
 Keeping code orgainzed can enable you to prioritize your goals and help keep
you from getting lost as the sizes of your programming projects grow.  Also bear
in mind that orgainization is a habit, that when well formed, will flow over
into other aspects of ones life where it may also be very important.

After we visit functions we will look at objects as another kind of container.
Whereas functions are for containing code, objects may be used as a special kind
of container that may contain anything we wish to build with our code.  The
discussion on objects in Chapter 1.3 will lead into Chapter 2 where we will talk
about Object Oriented Programming.

<br>
<br>
|Back      |Forward   |
|:---------|---------:|
|[Back to Forward](#forward)|[On to Section 1.1](#chapter-1_1)|

|          |
|:--------:|
|[Table of Contents](#TOC)